Hi guys.
In this lesson we're going to talk about monitoring and logging.
So there are two services for performing monitoring and logging within your account.
There are others but these two are the ones which I'm going to talk to you about now.
So those CloudWatch and CloudTrail. We've used CloudWatch quite a few times throughout the course.
So far we've used it for logging.
We've used it for collecting metrics and sending off alarms so that we know when an instance for instance
reaches a certain amount of usage of CPU or or some other metric.
So we've used that a little bit but we haven't used CloudTrail.
Now what I want to do first is just give you an overview of what these two services are and compare
them against one another so CloudWatch is all about monitoring. CloudWatch is about collecting metrics,
log files, and setting alarms.
And there's also a function for events as well so that you can monitor event changes in your account
and we'll look at these shortly.
So it's all about monitoring monitoring your application performance and monitoring your operational
health. CloudTrail
on the other hand is about recording who does what on your account.
So it's auditing and you can therefore think of it as more being in the security space whereas cloud
Watch is more in the operations space. CloudTrail gives you visibility into user activity by recording
the actions that are taken.
Now it's not just users as in people who are logging on with their own individual user accounts it's
also logging what AWS services are doing as well.
So you might have services like Elastic Load balancers or Elastic Beanstalk and a user might have initiated
those but then functions that are taking place as part of the application are also recorded.
So with CloudTrail you're getting an API history.
So that is if you think about any kind of API action that is performed on AWS as you're getting a record
of that activity.
So think about creating an instance for it for example when you create an instance you're actually using
an API.
Now it doesn't matter whether you're doing it through the console or whether you are doing it through
one of the other methods like the command line or an API, excuse me, or an SDK, you are still generating
an API call which instructs Amazon as to what to do.
Now all of that activity is therefore logged.
So you are able to keep a complete record of what's happening in your account. With CloudWatch logs
are stored indefinitely.
Now the information that comes through the metrics, not all of it is, and I'll talk about that a bit more
in the next lesson as to the amount of data that's actually recorded and how long it's recorded for.
But when it goes into the logs in CloudWatch it is actually stored indefinitely and in CloudTrail
you can then integrate with CloudWatch and export your logs from CloudTrail into CloudWatch and store
them in CloudWatch and you can also perform analysis on those logs as you can see on the bottom there
the alarms take place in CloudWatch not in CloudTrail but you can use CloudWatch alarms for cloud
trial.
And again that's about the integrations between CloudWatch and CloudTrail.
So what we're going to do in the next couple of labs is I'm going to show you through the consoles of
CloudWatch and CloudTrail, we're going to set a few things up and get you familiar with these services.